[MUSIC]
>> Lukas: So pipes and the plunks,
we just have this basic one where
we have this object that we're
just going through and binding to.
So we have items and
a couple of different things, and
we're just using Pipe to transform.
So it goes in one way and
it comes out another way.
So currency, percent, decimal,
and my favorite, the Jayson Pipe.
And how you make this work is Pipe
the pipe that you want to use and
then in the case of currency you
have some additional options too.
You could say USD or GBP for
Great Britain Pound, or I think
it's whatever the Euro is etcetera.
And also a number,
you could set like a decimal place.
And so on.
So
this is the built-in pipes,
pretty easy to use documentation.
Read the options.
You're good to go.
Now creating a pipe,
>> Lukas: Just unbelievably simple.
So we're creating a pipe
called reverse pipe
and we are going to
implement pipe transform.
So this is the interface that we're doing.
So that's why you have this
transform method here.
And it takes a value, in this case,
we're splitting, reversing and joining.
So this just standard Java Script.
We're decorating it with the pipe
decorator and we're saying give this
the name of reverse.
>> Lukas: And
then from here we're importing
reverse pipe forward
string Pipe reverse.
>> Lukas: You
can see the results at the bottom.
Just, mainly, so this is,
>> Lukas: There we go.
Now it's a little higher up in the screen,
I saw somebody kind of like,
where is that?
>> Lukas: So
it's just a class that implements pipe
transform as a transform method that takes
a value, you can also pass it an argument
to determine how something is transformed.
Then you need to return a value.
So it's just very functional in
a sense of it takes something in and
it returns something out.
And then you just import
it like everything else and
you can use it in your.
This will get you.
Make sure you add this into your pipes
decorator.
>> Lukas: And so
it's not a provider or
directives, but it's pipes.
One more final demo.
Whirlwind demo here.
For a sync pipe I have an array of items.
And I am creating a property
called asyncItems that
is an observable and
I'm saying, create this observable and
just use the observable of method.
So what that does is it just takes initial
value and returns an observable with that.
So we will talk about observable Or
rxjs operators,
more tomorrow, but for the most part,
it's just taking this array,
wrapping the observable around it,
and returning it.
Now, from here, we are saying, take this,
and asynchronously bind to this,
and then turn it into JSON.
So, in this particular case, we're not
really seeing the asynchronous nature of
it, but this could come from anywhere.
So I could easily extract this into
a service, and then just pass this in this
observable, and using async.
Then angular knows with the async pipe,
take the observable when it gets
a next event fire go ahead and
take that result and render it in the.
And this is exactly where
we will pick up tomorrow
is how to cause observables to flow
through our entire application and
consume them in our DOM.
So any questions on that?
I think we started with component routers
which was really hard this morning.
Scott, excellent job.
And then we finished with something
that's actually pretty easy, pretty
straight forward, but if anybody has any
questions about what's happening here,
you could check out the plunks or
I believe, for
the most part they are up
to date on the repository.
Any questions?
Any burning questions in your heart about,
what does life mean?
How do you do your,
how do you solve this calculus problem?
Whatever.
I mean, I'm here for you.
Yes.
>> Speaker 3: Isn't there more about
observables?
I can't find the word, observable,
more than once on that angular IO page.
>> Lukas: Fun.
Yes.
>> Lukas: I appreciate the efforts
of the angular team.
And their documentation.
I can say.
As it is, it's a thousand times better
than the angular one documentation was for
the longest time.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Lukas: I'm getting
there, just hang on.
>> Speaker 2: RX
list?
>> Lukas: Yes.
So, this is to learn observables, and
this why we did not have a stand alone
observables module in these two days.
Because the observable object
itself is really, really boring.
It just doesn't really do anything.
It just next, error, complete.
But where it gets really interesting.
Is when you start to add
in the reactive extensions.
And actually we go to this.
>> Lukas: And
so, if you really want to dig into
observables as it pertains to angular two,
start learning the rxjs operators.
And so this took me a little bit to kind
of figure out what I was looking at, but
for instance this is the merge method and
you can actually kind
of drag these around.
And it just, all it's doing
is taking these two basically
collections and
it's just merging them together.
Map takes the stream, runs this
operator on it and applies this method.
So it's just looping through and
multiplying everything by ten.
I think my wife is calling me I got to go.
Just kidding.
She can wait.
CombineLatest, I'm going to give you
just a little hint of the promise land.
CombineLatest is probably
one of the most amazing,
powerful operators that you
can use in angular two.
We'll see why tomorrow, but this is
how you start to learn observeables
is by learning actually the reactive
extensions that are built into it.
With that said there are like 130 or
150, and
that's actually where the angular core
team has actually pulled out rxjs and
you actually have to add
them in by piecemeal.
So you can add them in all at once,
which I tend to do if I'm
just testing something, but
if I were going into production then I
would add in those operators in one by one
as you saw Scott do.
>> Lukas: But yes,
I apologize that there's very low
documentation about observables.
You'll find that actually
on the rxjs site or
even just the standard rx sites.
So active extensions is language agnostic.
There's Java,
there's a ton of implementations for it.
And so I've actually learned quite a bit
about observables just from reading
the right to extensions websites.
>> Speaker 4: There're some great YouTube
talks, too.
That’s where I first got exposed to it.
>> Lukas: Yes.
>> Speaker 4: Jafar’s talk.
>> Lukas: Jafar is phenomenal.
Paul Taylor has done a really good talk.
He worked with Jafar at Netflix for
some time.
Ben Lesch actually did a really good post
about how to actually write an observable
from scratch.
And Egghead has some really
good videos as well about rxjs.